Recording has started and with that
welcome everyone to the last of the
October Lunch and Learn sessions for the
South African Azure User Group.
This week alone we have grown from 2209
members because I built the slide on
Monday and every day I had to go and
update it and today.
Today, as of this morning,
we were sitting at 2223 members and I
think most of that happened because they
knew the Warren was going to come.
So kudos to the Warren.
No, they didn't.
If you are here,
it's because you've probably joined
through meetup.
com and you are part of the Azure User
Group South Africa this week.
We've had a rather full week and we are
ending today, Thursday,
with Azure Network choosing the right
connectivity architecture for your cloud
with Warren Dutoy and there is a.
Lot to go through today.
If you miss a session and you are part of
the user group,
don't fear because you can also navigate
OK.
to the GitHub that we have built for you
and you can get an idea of what has been
committed this week already.
Warren's session will be up by the end of
today as soon as the recording has
processed.
And as an example,
you can see that we give you whatever the
speaker gives us if there is a PDF.
If not,
I still provide the transcripts in two
formats as well as the video recording,
which is a Teams recording.
I have to emphasize our code of conduct
because we are part of the global Azure
user groups,
and with that we do have a very strict
inclusion policy in that we respect
everyone, irrespective of their gender,
Sure.
sexual orientation, physical appearance,
disability, age, race, or religion.
And we will not tolerate any behavior
that is harassing or degrading in any
form. If any of that is reported to us,
we will evict you from the group.
And with that, I'd like to introduce.
The amazing Warren du Toit.
And this description does not do him
justice. It really doesn't.
It was what I scraped off his LinkedIn
profile and I chided him that it wasn't
reflection of of how amazing he is at
Oh.
minimum,
besides the stuff he does in the
Yeah.
community during.
Oh.
Day job.
He is the Cross Solutions Lead Architect
A.
for Middle East and Africa and is a Cross
Solutions Lead Architect.
He is multidiscipline,
which means he has to be amazing at
everything in multiple disciplines and
craft solutions across all of us.
And as Warren starts,
I'm going to hand off to him for this
Azure Lunch and Learn,
which is today Azure Network choosing the
right connectivity architecture.
Let me start that again.
Choosing the right.
I was doing so well up until that point.
Connectivity architecture for your cloud.
You are.
I'm going to stop sharing and fumbling of
my words and hand over to you, Warren.
Yeah.
Thank you, Nick. That was really cool.
I really like that first animation.
That's super funny.
It actually really looks like me laughing.
Oh.
I'd love to know how it does that. Really,
really cool. Thank you.
I think Nick's pretty much said exactly
what he needs to say about me,
so I'm not going to say anymore,
except I guess I love what I do and.
I like to live in Azure.
Every now and then we cross over to AWS
because we have to,
but I don't love it as much. I'm kidding.
Yes,
I enjoy playing around in Azure and
taking people to Azure, so.
With that, I'm going to share some stuff,
and please do stop me if there's anything
that you wanna ask.
There's a lot of content to get through.
We don't have to get through all of it
today.
Nick has graciously invited me back for
another one, so if.
If we don't finish,
or if things are taking too long or
whatever the case may be,
we'll make plans to do something else.
And I'm also going to leave you with some
goodies. There's a wonderful human being,
and his name is Vince Resente.
That works along with me at Microsoft,
and he was gracious enough to provide
pretty much most of the PowerPoint
presentation today because it's just it's
so expansive, it's just beautiful.
And also he provided me with a GitHub
link. It's his repo, but.
He built it with helping people how to
troubleshoot and learn how Azure
networking actually works.
So things from VPN connections, how to.
Monitor information flowing in and out of
Vnets through gateways, doing PCAP dumps,
those sorts of things so that you can
understand how to troubleshoot networking
inside of Azure.
Are your UDRS your user defined routes
working?
Have they been applied to the Vnets?
Have they been?
Allocated correctly?
Are the routes actually working the way
they're supposed to?
IP addressing correct?
Have you done your subnetting correctly?
All those lovely things and it's just
it's beautiful.
It's got some diagrams in it and I'll
send that to you a little bit later.
And with that,
let's hit the PowerPoint presentation.
And I'll do that and let's start O.
We're gonna go through.
What our backbone looks like as Microsoft
and Azure,
what it looks like around the world.
We're going to do some networking
resources, how our routing works,
some of the network topologies that you
can have inside of Azure Expressroute.
I have learned over the years,
instead of saying express route,
to say express route.
It's not because I want to be American,
it's just because that's how everybody
else around the world says it.
So express route is actually a thing.
Route means many different things to many
different cultures,
especially in Australia.
We express route, VWAN,
some resiliency stuff and then what Azure
Maps is.
So let's hope we get through all of it.
Oops.
OK,
what does our global network look like?
Like that? It's a bit of spaghetti,
but what's cool about it is if you go to
submarincablemap.com,
you'll be able to see all of the Internet
connectivity.
And all of the connectivity that
Microsoft has access to when we deliver
our services to you. So it's a very,
very busy slide and you'll see that when
it comes to some of these things.
That's pretty much what ours looks like
out of that previous picture.
We have more than 65 regions and at any
given moment in time,
I mean currently right now.
We probably have around 500 data center
projects around the world active and it
generally takes anywhere between three
and five years for one of those to
complete. So it's actually it's,
it's a big business.
And in each one of those regions,
as you can imagine,
we have to deal with everything.
So from workers, unions, strikes,
delivery of concrete,
making sure that whatever we build is
green, all that lovely stuff,
but we get through it.
There's over 320 data centers.
We have over 225 edge pops and we'll
discuss what that means a little bit
later. Over 500,000 network devices.
Can you imagine managing over 500,
000 network devices?
It's it's pretty insane.
And over 2 petabytes per second of WAN
capacity around the planet. We have 360,
000 kilometres of WAN fibre and we we
pretty much own that fibre,
which is pretty cool.
Um,
if you look at how our data center design
works.
You've got Earth, you've got regions,
and inside of those regions you'll have
zones, and generally inside of a Geo,
which you could call a country inside of
a Geo, we'll try to have two regions,
so you'll.
You'll see, like in South Africa,
we've got South Africa North,
we have South Africa West,
and as part of our new data center design,
we generally don't want to launch a data
center unless that data center has three
zones.
South Africa W was launched before this
happened,
so South Africa N is still considered as
a single zone.
Even though there's actually more than
one data center and it's still considered
a single zone.
You've got Azure zones,
and those zones will always be more than
10 physical kilometers apart.
We don't specify how far apart they are,
but we generally do provide an SLA of
around two to three milliseconds between
those zones, right?
You how far apart they are,
security reasons, but you'll have AZ one,
AZ two,
AZ three and how we do load balancing of
resources between that.
So you'll see we've got subscriptions,
the concept of a subscription inside of
Azure where you deploy your resources.
You'll find that when you're using a
subscription,
you'll have AZ1AZ2AZ3 physical locations,
and then another subscription might be
AZ3AZ2AZ1 physical locations.
We'll actually mix and match those.
They won't actually be the same,
so subscription A.
AAZ one will not be the same as
subscription B's AZ one.
They could be different as far as
physical locations are concerned because
we'll load balance the capacity as we go
along.
Then each inside those Azure zones we can
have more than one physical data center
per zone.
So in places like West Europe,
North Europe,
I mean some of those zones have like 6 or
7 data centers.
Inside the data centers we have stamps,
we have many stamps and each one of those
stamps will be custom built before we
deliver them to the data center and those
stamps.
Will either be storage stamps or memory
optimized stamps,
compute optimized stamps, AI stamps,
and these change based on generation and
they get more and more efficient every
time we deploy these and then inside
those stamps we have racks.
And then those racks will then consist of
fault domains. And if you know your Azure,
you'll know that fault domains,
so that fault domains,
update domains will give you a certain
level of redundancy so that for instance
if you've got update domains.
And we decide to patch hosts if you've
got your update domains configured
correctly. When we update those hosts,
your virtual machines won't be affected
based on how you've configured that.
And this is one of the availability set
concepts concepts,
but you can dig into that when we do a
session on resiliency. Hint hint 99, Nick.
Um.
When we connect them. So you've got a,
we've got what we call RNGS,
which are regional network gateways and
those regional network gateways,
we generally have one per availability
zone and those regional network gateways,
nobody knows where they are.
It was just a week internally,
they don't even know where they are and
they actually are separate to the actual
availability zones.
So you'll find that they're out of those
availability zones and we've got extreme
amount of scaling in there.
So they can go from 100 gig to 200 gig to
1.6 terabit.
Through any one of those RNGS at any
given time, the low latency,
anything sub one millisecond,
super high bandwidth and we have we use
an we use a protocol called Sonic which
I'll dig into a little bit later.
And then we have our edge devices where
Internet peers will connect to.
So this would be maps or any other of the
sort of like Afrinic or Map Africa.
Those will connect through our edge and
then you'll have the private side which
is Expressroute which connects directly
in the Via service provider.
Into our Azure routers and then that will
then route into those RNGS and that will
then go into the Azure region.
We use software defined networking and
they're controlled by an SWAN stack which
is based on Sonic,
which is open networking in the cloud.
And we've developed Sonic and we have a
whole bunch of partners that help us as
well.
And you'll see it supports things like
IPV 6.
We're actually supporting more and more
IPV 6 as we go along and hopefully soon
it'll start becoming more of the standard.
So we've got a lot of active contributors
when it comes to Sonic,
and this is the stuff that we use for our
software defined networking.
So it's basically the Linux switch of
network operating systems.
How does LGO work specifically?
As I mentioned before,
you'll see that we've got SA W,
we've got SA N. Inside the Africa Geo,
you'll see that we've got the RNGs there
sitting in the middle.
Round trips between those RNGs and those
DCs are sitting between one and two
milliseconds with an average of 1.
1.
6 petabyte per second of traffic
available.
You'll see that 10 kilometer run between
those and then you'll see that we've got
redundant DC's in each zone and then
those are connected up together and then
they're connected to a ring and then
those are then fired up to those RNG's
and then those RNG's then connect to
Global Azure.
You'll see that, for instance,
the round trip between South Africa West
and South Africa N is generally around 36
milliseconds, 18 milliseconds one way,
reason being physics.
It's just very far away. I mean, you know,
speed of light over 1000 kilometers
physics.
Azure networking some of the stuff that's
available to you.
As part of the Azure networking stack,
there's a lot. There really,
really is a lot.
We've got four different pillars.
So the deliver side, bottom right,
load balancers.
We've done a lot of work with load
balancers.
Our Azure load balancers as it stands
right now are zone redundant.
So when you deploy a load balancer,
you can deploy a load balancer and it'll
automatically be spanned across three
zones in a zone supported region.
So like in South African N deploy a load
balancer.
That load balancer will be spanned across
all three of those zones,
very similar with an application gateway
will do the same if you deploy it in the
correct way. We've also got Front Door,
Traffic Manager, those sorts of things.
So Front Door are globally available WAF
unfortunately.
Had a bit of, as you say,
bad publicity in the past couple of weeks.
It's unfortunate,
but sometimes it happens.
And then Front Door also consists of a
CDN, a content delivery network,
which is part of the Front Door service
which is there and then Traffic Manager,
which is just a globally distributed load
balancer, can work on DNS as well.
And then we've got the protect side of
things with DDOS protection on Vnets.
We've got our own version of Firewall,
which integrates a lot with our services.
So what's cool about the Azure Firewall,
it's things like VWAN,
which I'll get to a little bit later.
Azure Firewall can connect directly into
VWAN hub and it can protect the hub.
We've got network security groups which
allow you to protect your Vnet,
restrict incoming and outgoing traffic
port based as well and then we've got.
WAFs which are also part of the
Application Gateway and then Vnet
endpoints which allow you to keep
everything private which connect up to
platform as a service services.
And then we've got your stock standard
stuff on the left,
virtual networks which are same as VPCs
in AWS.
We've got VPN gateways, VPN tunnels,
we've got DNS, we've got private DNS,
we've got public DNS.
Our DNS infrastructure is actually pretty
incredible if you have to dig into the
architecture around DNS.
So something that happened to a WS couple
weeks ago would probably never happen to
us because we learned our lesson the last
time.
So you'll see that we've actually got two
sets of redundant DNS resolvers that we
use globally. They're replicated globally.
We've actually got a Linux set and a
window set that are completely redundant
and is completely replicated with one
another.
So the chances of our DNS going down are
very, very, very small.
Our Express Routes,
we've got a lot of different options
there,
which I'll get to a little bit later.
We've got our VWAN hubs and again,
what would all of this be if we didn't
monitor it? So we've got Azure Monitor,
Network Monitor, KX Monitors,
which I can take you through a little bit
later and again that GitHub repo.
Advances deployed will help you use that
to the best of your ability so that you
can troubleshoot all of the stuff that
I've just mentioned.
We've made some really cool new updates
that are in preview which allow you to
have the single pane of glass view.
Or your networking.
So we've got the hybrid connectivity pane
now,
which allows you to check your
Expressroute circuits,
any of your route filters for BGP,
some of your VPN gateways,
what your VWAN hubs look like,
and if you've got any route servers.
Active inside of your inside of your
subscription tenant.
We've also got the network foundation
pane,
which gives you access to all of your
virtual networks, your DNS zones,
traffic managers,
any of your private endpoints,
any of your network interfaces attached
to any of your VMS,
your network security groups,
public IP business.
All that cool stuff as well.
We've also got the Network Security Pane,
which you can help admin your Azure
firewalls,
any of the policies that are in your
Firewall Manager,
the DDoS protection on your Vnets,
your virtual hubs and your virtual
networks.
So we're creating this single pane of
glass view so that you can look at.
This from a bird's eye so that we've also
got something really cool.
It's a little bit later.
I'll show it to you.
We've got Azure Virtual Network Manager,
which is really cool.
It allows you to deploy different
policies down to all of your Vnets.
So if you're making a routing change,
it's actually quite cool.
Um.
We've got Storage Center now,
also single pane of glass view.
You'll see that we've also released this
new,
this new update called Storage Discovery,
which is also really cool,
which allows you to scan all of your
storage accounts and understand what your
storage ecosystem looks like.
We can also manage your private
connectivity here for all of your storage
accounts. I am.
I know I'm going a little bit fast,
but I've got a lot to get to.
Then we've got our cloud adoption
framework and.
I know everybody's heard us beat this
drum,
but the Cloud Adoption Framework is very
important.
You can see that we've actually updated
it recently.
There's a couple of new extra blocks.
You'll see there's this AI Services
subscription.
Down there at the bottom that we've also
got this next piece here and you'll see
sort of in the top.
I know it's it's it's grayed out,
but you'll see the top left.
We've got a security subscription now
which has been made standard and then
landing zones themselves have been split
into a platform side and an application
side.
So that you can delineate between those,
but they can still become part of those
landing zone designs that you do up front.
So we've singled out the connectivity
subscription here specifically because as
part of the cloud adoption framework.
In your regions, you can excuse me.
In your regions,
depending on the design that you've
chosen,
you can choose to automate this entire
process using infrastructure as code,
Terraform, Bicep, whatever you choose.
You can have your expression circuits,
your firewall policies, your NVAS.
Let's say you choose to use Palo Alto,
Fortinet, whatever the case may be.
You can deploy those inside of this using
infrastructure as code,
and again you can deploy them redundantly.
You can make them.
You can do the role based access control
for all of your network admins.
You can make sure that the monitoring is
done and everything all via
infrastructure as code based on the Cloud
Adoption Framework.
And we give you a lot of these templates
so that you can deploy these connectivity
subscriptions relatively easy and the
policies that lie on top of them which
would go into your management groups.
And in those management groups,
you then add your connectivity
description into that so that all of
these policies will apply to the
subscription.
What does secure networking look like?
I added this in because this is quite
important with today because.
Everything's AI.
And what would life be without an AI
landing zone?
What would life be without a secure AI
landing zone?
So in this particular picture,
you'll see we've got our connectivity
subscription on the right hand side.
We've got our management groups that are
managing it and let's say we've connected
up to on-prem.
We could even connect to a WS,
doesn't matter.
You'll see that we've then got a peer,
a virtual network and peered to another
network and inside that network we've got
a landing zone which has been designed
for an AI application.
You'll see that there's a whole bunch of
private endpoints in the middle.
Reason being you'll see that we've got
whoops.
You'll see that we've got the dump box
over here.
We've got a storage account which has got
private endpoint over there.
We've got AI Search with a private
endpoint, Cosmos DB private endpoint,
Key Vault private endpoint.
AI services.
So this could be something like Face API
or whatever the case may be with private
endoints. We've got our models.
So anything like you could use Grok,
you could use 534, you could use GPT,
doesn't matter.
Any of the larger language models that we
support,
you could then use on a private endpoint.
It's.
My mouse keeps doing that. OK,
then you'll see that we they can go into
different subnets.
You can manage the routing between those
subnets via NSGS.
Then you'll see that we've got a
container app environment which is
actually managing the application.
So we'd be running microservices.
In this case it could be a Kubernetes
cluster, it could be.
App services choice is yours.
We've got container registries,
we've got app configurations.
But the idea behind this is that every
single one of these services is
communicating internally to the network.
So you've got this entire AI application
which is sitting behind an application
gateway, behind a web application.
Firewall,
but all of the networking and all of the
private endoints has allowed you to keep
that entire application inside and safe.
So you can use as much AI as you want,
but it's never going to leave the network.
Cool thing is as well is you can make
this entire architecture redundant.
We can even have these foundry models
sitting behind an API manager,
so APIM API Gateway and those large
language models.
You could have one in Sweden if you
wanted to.
You could have your primary large
language model here in South Africa,
and then you could have a secondary one
in Sweden. And if, let's say,
the one in South Africa N had to die,
we could fail over.
Automatically to the ones in three so
that you wouldn't lose access to the
large language model and your application
wouldn't break and you could still do
that privately.
It would just traverse our backbone via
the private endpoint.
So there's a lot of options to make sure
that this is redundant. OK.
When it comes to routing preference
inside of Azure,
so you'll see we've got hot potato
routing, cold potato routing.
So routing via our global network you'll
see from you it's the local ISP.
So if you route via.
The Microsoft Global Network,
let's say cold potato routing.
It's going to enter Microsoft network
closest to the user,
so it's going to stay on our backbone
until it exits closest to the router. OK,
so you can think of this as.
Um.
Office 365, Office 365,
it's going to hit us as quickly as it
possibly can,
and then it's going to route inside of us,
inside of our network,
it's going to access the services it
needs to, and then it's going to exit.
So you'll see it's the default network
for all of our networking services, right?
Then we've got hot potato routing,
which is cost optimized.
It's going to route via the Internet,
which means it's up to you.
It's going to enter the Microsoft region
closest to the hosted service region.
And then it's going to exit Microsoft in
the same region the service is hosted.
So even though it's cost optimized,
it's not exactly the greatest.
So you'll see that there's some
descriptions around how that works.
Then connecting to Azure,
we've got the Internet,
so Internet facing stuff,
public IP addresses.
Stuff that's sitting on the edge of Azure.
So we would have a public IP address.
You could attach that to a firewall,
you could attach that to an application
gateway,
and then everybody would just use the
Internet wherever they are to hit the
cloud. Then you've got remote access,
which is point to site where you've got a
VPN.
So Mac, Linux, Windows Phone,
you could use AD authentication,
you could use Radius.
They essentially use a VPN client,
they remote into Azure and they can be on
the network inside of Azure.
Then you go site to site.
Site to site is when you've got,
let's say a firewall or a VPN device.
On premises and it establishes an IPsec
tunnel into Azure. You could use BGP,
you could add active, active,
you could do transit routing here.
This is high throughput again.
You could also use something like ECMP
where it load balances across multiple
tunnels because you've got limitations on
the IP.
the protocol, so IKE.
Then you could load balance across
multiple VPN tunnels if you wanted to,
and increase the throughput.
Then finally we've got ExpressRoute.
In ExpressRoute, you could...
By default, not encrypted,
which I'll get to a little bit later.
You could run an IP6 tunnel over that to
make it encrypted,
but ideally that's private connectivity.
So you would want to run this.
You've got anything from I think 50 Meg
all the way up to I think if we take.
Express direct in this country,
I think goes up to 40 gig per second now.
I think it was just. Oh no, wait,
it's 100. It's 100 now.
I think it's 100 now. Um, Express,
Express route will get to 100. Um.
As far as speeds are concerned,
providing the switching and the service
provider supports it.
Then inside of Azure we've got Vnet
peering,
you've got Vnet to Vnet gateways and then
private link.
Private link is cool because it can also
work cross region.
Like I said about the AI thing,
but it can also work cross tenant.
So for instance if you let's say you've
got a hosted service from someone like
Mongo DB.
So Mongo DB has a service called Atlas
where they spin up.
A database service inside of their tenant
which they manage,
but then they will give you a private
link and that private link will be inside
your subscription inside your tenant and
you'll have an IP address locally in your
Vnet.
But then using our software defined
networking,
you're then connected to their tenant
privately to the service that they
provide. We've got Azure VWAN,
which is our software defined networking
for WANS, which is branch to Vnet,
Vnet to branch, Vnet to Vnet.
We can do VPN, we can do Expressroute,
and then we've got Expressroute Global
Reach.
Global Reach is great because what that
allows us to do is it allows you to have
DC to DC connectivity via our backbone.
So for instance,
if you've got an Expressroute circuit
here in South Africa, you.
Connect to our data centers,
but then you've got an express route in
the UK and you connect to our data
centers.
We can allow you connectivity from South
Africa,
your South Africa branch or DC to your UK
branch or DC over our backbone.
So it'll take the Expressroute from this
side and connect it to the Expressroute
on that side and you can route over our
backbone as opposed to paying a service
provider for a link or for an MPLS link
that traverses the entire world.
Then it's apologies.
We've got AVM,
so Azure Virtual Network Manager,
which is like I said,
it was just recently released where you
can define certain topologies
automatically where you can say I've got
a hub spoke model,
you can define which one is your hub,
which are your spokes.
Then it will go automatically and create
those routing definitions for you and
then make sure that it applies all of
those policies and effective routes to
all of those different Vnets inside the
ones that you've chosen.
Or you could have mesh or you could have
hubspoke with direct connectivity between
the spokes. So if there's.
Ever a case where you need two spokes to
talk to each other,
let's say you're trying to minimize cost
or you're trying to decrease latency or
you don't want it to necessarily go
through the hub or firewall.
Let's say it's a high intensity data
workload or whatever the case may be,
you could do that as well.
Connecting to some of the Azure services
when it comes to the IaaS, PaaS,
SaaS workloads.
So we've got the Expressroute private
peering where you can connect to IaaS,
we've got site to site or alternatively
you can then do Microsoft public peering
where you can connect to platform.
As a services as well.
Then you'll see that we've got site to
site VPN as well connecting to a branch.
We can also connect via Expressroute to
IaaS from a branch as well.
You could do Paas.
I'm gonna just do the rest there.
So ideally you could connect any one of
these.
Ways to Azure services and you'll see
that there's maps there at the end,
which I'll explain towards the end.
So there's a whole bunch of different
ways that you can connect to each one of
the different services,
and ideally there's a more optimal way to
connect to them.
But at the same token,
you've got to understand what the costs
for each one of these are.
Also performance versus security as well.
So there'll always be trade-offs
depending on which one it is that you
choose.
And between performance,
cost and security. So just be careful,
take that into account whenever you're
designing network infrastructure.
Expressroute. So like I said before,
you're creating a private connection
between our data centers and yours.
How does it work?
So it supports route filters.
We've got resiliency because you'll
always have a primary connection and a
secondary connection.
Whoops, it's layer 3 connectivity. OK,
like I said before,
it also allows you to connect not just to
Microsoft Cloud services,
but you can use Global Reach so that you
can connect to your DCS.
There's dynamic routing.
Via BGP,
it also supports quality of service and
again we do have connection uptime SLS as
well.
So it'll do private connectivity as well
as platform as a service connectivity as
far as Microsoft online services are
concerned.
This has changed somewhat.
You can't do things like Office 365
unless you get special clearance.
The recommendation is to use maps instead
when it comes to Express Route Direct.
Express Route Direct is when.
You in some ways become a provider.
So for instance,
if you're the IT department and you're
supplying connectivity to different
business units inside of the organization,
what we'd be doing is.
You could have these Express Route Direct
dedicated ports,
so let's say 10 gig or 100 gig.
And then what you can do is then carve
these 10 gig circuits or 100 gig circuits
up as much as you wanted in specific
speeds. So you could either, let's say,
use a 5221.
For the 10 or you could do 222222 or you
could just do the single 10.
The idea behind this is that you can
attach each one of these circuits to
different virtual networks for different
BU's and then you won't get this noisy
neighbor type vibe where one is going to
overtake from the other or alternatively.
We've had it in situations where
customers have decided they'll take an
Express Route direct because they want to
do a large scale migration of virtual
machines. They'll go,
they'll get the the 210 gig circuits,
the primary, secondary,
they'll bond them together.
They'll have 20 gigs of throughput and
they'll just smash as much as they can.
Um.
Then you've got local,
Express Route Local,
you've got Express Route Standard,
Express Route Premium.
There are differences.
Express Route Local is obviously
unlimited when it comes to egress,
but again,
you'll only be able to contact SA N if
you're within the SA N Metro and SA W if
you're in the.
In the in sort of the Cape Town metro,
then you've got standard,
which is either unlimited or metered,
and then you've got premium,
which then allows you to do the global
reach thing.
The connectivity models,
I'm going to skip that one to go through
here. Express direct.
I want to take the Max SEC thing into
consideration quickly. So with Max SEC,
you've got layer 2 encryption where you
as the customer would own the key.
You can oversubscribe slightly by
creating additional circuits,
and because of the Max Sick,
it means that anything inside of that
particular layer two would be encrypted
from the start,
and as a result you don't actually need
to apply encryption on.
The the link so.
Certain financial services customers or
compliant customers don't have to apply
additional encryption.
So you'll see that there's a letter that
you have to sign.
There's a whole bunch of cool stuff that
has to happen there for you to get
Express to Direct.
We've got a couple of customers in South
Africa that have it, mostly banks.
Then you'll see that we've also got 802.
1Q,
so you can carry multiple Vlans over a
single wire.
So you can also do double tagging as well
where Vlans in the trunk can overlap.
So you can have an outer tag, inner tag.
So private peering and Microsoft peering
in the different Vlans,
which is also quite cool.
IPsec over Expressroute is.
The way that certain customers,
if they can't afford Express Route Direct,
they will encrypt over Express Route so
that they'll be compliant.
And for links generally smaller than a
gig, they can do that too site to site,
which I explained before.
Max bandwidth speed is 2.5 at the moment.
If you use the correct settings for the
IKE protocol,
generally the limitation is around 1.4,
but we've been able to push it with our
new gateways so it connects over the
Internet.
Yeah, non-mission critical workloads.
It uses RKE RP SEC. Then we have VWAN.
Um.
We've got a bunch of partners when it
comes to the VWAN ecosystem.
This is around security and integration
into VWAN using NVA,
so network virtual appliances.
So we've got Fortinet for instance will
integrate,
they'll deploy network virtual appliances
directly.
Directly into the VWAN hub and it will be
able to then secure all the traffic that
goes in and out. Things like Palo Alto.
Unfortunately it's not necessarily an NVA,
it's more a cloud service.
So it's like a software as a service
firewall which sort of sits outside the
view end,
but we route the information out the view
end into their cloud service and and back
out it. I mean, look,
the latency's not not anything to worry
about,
it's just it's not an actual virtual
machine sitting within the tenant.
So it can scale. It's great.
It's actually a pretty rad service,
but it's how they got around not having
to custom design a network virtual
appliance that goes into our into our hub.
Checkpoint has something inside of the
hub as well.
So you've got you've got options when
you're deploying a hub.
The great thing about this is that it
integrates directly into the hub,
so you don't have to worry about all the
complex routing and all that stuff as
well when it comes to the Vnet.
VWAN hub in a single region looks
something like this.
You'll have a VWAN hub in the region like
South Africa North,
and you'll have a bunch of Vnets
connecting into the VWAN hub.
You can then have the VPN gateways
sitting inside that VWAN.
You can then scale those VPN gateways
using.
Scale units depending on the amount of
bandwidth you need,
and then they can then do point to site
to users,
or they can do site to site to branches,
or you can have an Expressroute gateway
sitting inside of that vran as well,
and it'll pretty much manage all of the
routing between all of those different
pieces.
We've also got multi-region.
If you're doing multi-region,
you are going to want to deploy 2 VWAN
hubs.
So you'll have a VWAN hub in South Africa
North and VWAN hub in let's say UAE
central or whatever the case may be is
and then those hub to hub connections.
We'll manage the routing between those
two regions,
and then the Vnet attached to those
regions will then be routed the same way,
but we'd manage the connectivity between
the regions that way.
So how does it actually work?
You'll see that we've got a Virtual Hub
router.
It controls the routes between all the
gateways. As I said before,
you'll have an MVA integrated into the
Virtual Hub router.
You'll see there there's a Fortinet.
You have the option to have an indirect
Vnet if you wanted to.
So if let's say there's an NVA that isn't
supported inside of the Vnet hub or the
VWAN hub,
you could create an indirect Vnet which
could let's say handle your north-south
traffic.
So it could be like an egress firewall
and then.
You'd have, let's say,
an Azure firewall on the inside which
does your east West traffic.
So you can have a combination of
different firewalls which we do often see
in financial services customers.
You'll see down at the bottom there's the
software as a service for Palo Alto.
So there's a bunch of different ways you
could do this.
We generally do see two sets of firewalls,
so you'll have one inside of the VWAN,
and then you'll have one outside of the
VWAN, which then manages the egress.
So like let's say there's a bunch of IP
addresses sitting on the outside of the
network,
they get inspected by the forty gates
that then sends it into the VWAN hub,
the VWAN hub will distribute it to the
application service or whatever the case
may be.
So that's what that would look like there
when it comes to the resiliency,
excuse me.
Resiliency for Express route.
Currently in South Africa,
for at least next couple months,
we only have one edge location,
soon to be two,
but generally in most other locations
you'll find that we have more than one
edge location.
And we would then have.
Your Expressroute circuits peering to two
different edge locations so that you
would have redundancy.
So you'd have link one, link two, primary,
secondary, primary,
secondary going to different edge
locations so that if that one edge
location went down.
The other edge location would take over,
so we don't currently have that now.
We will soon.
So we've also got the metro model coming
out as well,
and the metro model allows distinct edge
locations with a single physical link,
which is going to happen soon where you
can have.
The primary and secondary actually taking
diverse paths as well,
as opposed to just being like a like a
pair.
Hopefully that actually comes true and it
doesn't slip. Jan twenty-six is in off.
Let's hope. Yeah, I hope so.
When it comes to the single circuit bow
tie effect,
we have a bunch of customers inside of
South Africa that use it this way.
So you would have Uh standard in South
Africa North,
Uh standard South Africa West and you'll
see that there's let's say Vnet peering
or using a VWAN hub and you'll see that
customers create this bow tie effect.
For now,
in which case what happens is you'll have
the.
If one of the links goes down,
let's say for South Africa N,
you could then route via South Africa
West. I mean the latency will increase,
but at least you'll still have
connectivity.
So you'll see this would be the ideal way
to create redundancy in South Africa.
Plus you could also have local as well.
In this scenario,
a lot of customers do do that because
local is also cheaper.
The idea that you have unlimited traffic,
you'd have that secondary link there as
well.
I explained global reach a little bit
earlier.
This is actually what it looks like.
So for instance,
if you had a DC in Joburg, DC in London.
And you used our backbone to connect it,
it would be like that.
So that is what Global Reach is
essentially achieving for you.
So you can route traffic from one DC to
another DC, but using us.
OK.
Then we've got disaster recovery designs,
which I explained a little bit earlier,
but this is just using VWAN instead.
So you could have Virtual Hub A,
Virtual Hub B in two regions and you
could have two express short circuits.
Both going to on premises and it'd be
completely redundant.
This would be with VPN as opposed to
Expressroute.
And this would be Express Route with VPN
failover. So for instance,
if you wanted Express Route,
you have Express Route,
but you don't have enough money for two,
you could use VPN as a failover.
So that's also possible.
I'm gonna touch on this next subject very
briefly. It can get super complicated.
Um.
VMware services is essentially an island.
It's a private cloud.
It has no connectivity to anything,
so ideally you need to connect it.
So excuse me,
there's a bunch of different ways to do
this.
One is Expressroute,
so you could deploy an Uh gateway and
then you could then connect it up like
you would deploy the ADS resource like so.
And you can use Expressroute Global Reach
and you'll see that it'll connect up the
AVS network to your Azure Vnet and then
to your DC if you wanted to connect any
platform as a service services or
software as a service services.
It would then do that.
So you would connect up to the Uh gateway
inside of Azure on the Vnet.
If you were going to be using a VWAN hub,
you'd be doing it like that.
So essentially what you're doing is
you're just replacing the connectivity
with the Vnet hub with a VWAN hub.
So that's only real difference.
Then there's IP SEC instead of an
Expressroute gateway. You'd be doing that.
So you'd have VPN on the one side,
and then you'd have the Express Route
gateway specifically just for the AVS
network.
So there's a bunch of different ways to
do this,
but you'd also have to have the root
server for this particular way of doing
things.
So just remembering when you deploy an
AVS network,
this would be the way to do it.
This is changing in.
In ABS Gen. 2, in ABS Gen. 2,
we're making it a little bit more simple.
We're going to be using Vnets to attach
the ABS clusters instead,
so that it'll be a little bit less
complicated for you to connect up your
private cloud, so.
Looking forward to that next year when it
goes GA. Finally, we're looking at Maps,
which is Microsoft's Microsoft Azure
Peering service,
which what we're trying to do here is we
are essentially trying to give you.
The closest.
Way to get to Azure.
So ideally what we're doing is we're
allowing you to then peer over a service
provider with us so that you could get
the quickest entry point into our network.
So let's say before maps you would have.
3456 hops before you eventually hit our
edge with us.
What we're doing is with with maps,
what you're doing is you're essentially
shortcutting that.
So you'll see straight down the middle
there.
What we're doing is we're saying you're
going to go straight from you.
With maps you can essentially one hop,
2 hops. So as opposed to it being 1234,
you're going to be just going 1-2 and
you're in the network.
So ideally this is the best way for you
to get the best performance for something
like Office 365 with Teams and SharePoint.
And those sorts of things,
as opposed to using it the old way where
we used to do it over Expressroutes,
which was a disaster because you peer
your Office 365 services and then
sometimes your Windows Update would break
because you get asynchronous routing or
whatever the case may be.
So this would be the best way to do it.
So you'd have the shortest path to get
straight through to us as opposed to
going around. And with that,
if you've got any questions,
I know that was fast,
but I think I did it in what, 45?
You did it right on the money.
That was amazing.
Right. I know it was. I was speaking fast.
I'm sorry.
No, it was great. It was great.
I did give a time constraint.
Huh.
You stuck exactly to it, so thank you.
So I'd like if whoever is not completely
overwhelmed, actually,
let's just do cameras on and no,
not at all.
Sorry, sorry.
Cameras on and and and microphones.
And let's take the opportunity for the
next 4 minutes to ask questions.
Yep. So first of all,
just want to know if that presentation is
going to be available because as you say,
there's like I thought I had a fair
understanding of Microsoft Azure
networking,
but that's just it's interesting to get a
peek behind the curtain and to go and see
exactly what it looks like to know that
you're in your own fibre.
Hmm.
There's things that I'd have a vague
understanding of,
Mm.
but never really lost track of about.
Mm.
Things like using Express Route,
global peering and things like with the
map stuff that you brought up at the end.
Now I'm already curious about who the
Hm.
Hmm.
peering partners are in South Africa and
how you know who we can use because we
have an ISP that we work with who are
using Express Route.
Yeah.
So they would either like to consume the
service or maybe even become a partner.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
So those kind of questions.
So there's a lot. And then you didn't.
I was waiting for you to get into things
Yeah.
on a deep dive onto Azure Firewall
because that's probably the bit that I
have in my Azure calculator list more
often than not is that I tend to use
virtual machines and go and put down
infrastructure as a service.
Hmm.
Yeah.
So would love to go and get in some
detail on that and the pros and cons of
For sure.
that, but so.
There's a lot.
So rather than just is there,
There is.
obviously we've got the recording.
Is that presentation that you've prepared
going to be shared publicly?
So what I can do is I can share it with
you directly.
So what I'll do is I'll get the details
from Nick and I'll share it with you.
Yeah.
And then when it comes to Maps itself,
just search Microsoft Azure Peering
Service on Google or Bing or whatever.
And when you go to the link,
Yeah.
you'll see in our documentation you'll
see there's a very.
Clear defined list of the partners that
support maps and exactly how to activate
it,
because you'll activate it in a tenant,
I think it costs.
I think it's like 10 or $20 a month or
something dumb. I mean,
it's like it could even be $5 a month.
It's something silly.
You turn it on and then you just do the
peering on your side and it's done.
That's it.
And then you just start learning the
OK.
roots.
Then as far as Azure Firewall's concerned,
maybe Nick, we do, I mean,
A whole session.
maybe we do a session. Yeah,
maybe we do a session on like network,
on like network security and turning all
of those features on and off.
And maybe we do like a deep dive in the
portal.
Yeah.
You know how to deploy it, what to deploy,
where to deploy,
how firewall manager works,
all that lovely stuff.
Mm.
I did say I'd share that repo with you as
well, which is here.
I'm gonna put it in the chat. This is.
Vince's repo.
You can go have a look there.
What that'll do is that'll run a a
PowerShell script.
It'll deploy a bunch of VPN gateways.
It'll connect everything up.
It'll basically sort of emulate an
on-premises environment and a cloud
environment to connect the two together
with two Ubuntu machines on either side.
And it's going to teach you about
troubleshooting the routing, the routes,
which tools to use, what to install,
what to look for,
how to ping this one to there and you
know, not to use just ICMP all the time,
rather use a TCP ping as well.
So there's a lot of cool stuff that's in
there as well and also.
There is an Azure firewall that actually
gets deployed in that environment,
so it kind of trips you up a little bit.
There's kind of some cool tricks that
Vince has gone and done where he
configures a firewall rule that hurts you.
So it's actually quite cool, yeah.
OK, excellent. Thank you.
I'll take a look because I've been
because that's the one that we have most
with our customer facing items is that
Hmm. Yeah.
obviously you want to go and have a
firewall and have good security in place.
Hmm.
And then at the moment I'm still putting
down infrastructure as a service,
putting a virtual appliance on top of it.
But then you lose the benefits,
the advantages of the automatic
redundancy that comes with Azure Firewall.
They're really closely integrated
networking and all those kind of things.
Yep.
So then it's and it's it always comes
down to a costing discussion that a few
100%.
things I have to fail over and then so
that'd be good to go and dive into some
of those and so thank you for sharing the
link. I shall take a look.
Yeah.
Pleasure.
Yeah. Any other questions, just hit me up.
I mean, Nick's got all my details. Yeah,
OK, cool.
I'm more than happy to help.
Thanks, Warren. I'm I'm just,
I'm just overwhelmed,
It look oh.
Yeah, you can see,
you can hear my voice is already.
but I'll definitely go through the
information.
Mind blowing.
My voice is a little hoarse from talking
so fast. Yeah,
OK.
there's there's there's a lot.
But the cool thing is,
is there's so many different things to
achieve.
So many different ways to achieve the
same thing.
Yeah.
So depending on the organization and
depending what it is that you're trying
to achieve. So like I said,
financial services and compliant
customers, they use everything.
Like everything that I spoke about,
Mm.
they turn on like doesn't matter what it
is.
It doesn't matter what it costs,
they just turn it on and then the
complexity triples.
Then there's some customers that are a
Mm.
Yeah.
little bit more forward thinking where
they say no,
we don't want a single virtual network
and we don't want a single private
endpoint. We'll use.
Your platform as a service firewall,
we'll use the public endpoints,
we'll just turn everything off,
we'll use identity as the barrier,
and then they're cool.
And then they'll just like,
that's the way they'll do stuff.
And it's actually, it works very,
very well.
So they'll use conditional access,
as Nick knows.
Additional access,
multi factor authentication,
all that stuff and that's how they'll do
it. So there's no.
So the more old school you are as a
company, the more of the stuff you'll use.
The more new school you are,
the less you are because the more cloud
native you go.
You go,
the less you actually have to worry about
all the networking. But again,
we have private endpoints for most of our
services now.
So like that AI thing that I discussed
earlier,
all of the cloud native applications,
Kubernetes, Azure Container apps.
App Services, Cognos VB, SQL DB,
all that stuff is available privately,
so you can route to all of it and the
minute you can route to it,
it just becomes so much easier.
I'm quietly well,
I've been rather vocal over the years.
OK.
I'm a massive fan of Azure Global WAN
because I like to call it poor man's WAN
Hmm.
because it is.
So amazing and so cheap compared to what
you can do for yourself.
Yeah.
OK.
E.
And the fact that you can do an endpoint
in in Cape Town and pop up in Brazil and
Mhm.
your routing is just done for you via a
backbone that you just couldn't afford to
Mm.
assemble. It's just astounding.
Yeah,
I've actually got a lab at Liquid where
I've got a 200 Meg Express routes that
they've graciously given me for testing
purposes. I've got a Microtek.
Device that's terminating it.
I mean it's like 2000 Rand switch and
it's terminating the Expressroute
connection and I've got.
Yeah.
AI stuff running in the DC in that rack,
connecting to the large language model in
Sweden and East US,
but connecting to a virtual network here.
Yeah.
So all my large language models,
because all the latest models happen that
side in Sweden.
But I usually hear in a DC over a private
network and it's just it's the greatest
demo ever.
Why in Sweden? Why?
Why does Sweden get things first?
Sweden gets all the latest models first,
and to be honest with you,
I think it's just the data center where
we've got the most capacity at the moment.
We're deploying GPUs there like nobody's
business. It's efficient, cheap cooling.
Mm.
Because of the environment,
it's nice and cold there,
Yeah, yeah.
so we've got a lot of capacity in in
Sweden.
I can see that people are dropping like
flies and we've hit that time boundary.
Hmm. Yeah.
Warren, thank you so much.
This has been astounding.
Hey there.
You've been amazing as usual and I am
going to lean on you for another session.
Yeah.
Sounds good. Have a good one. That's it.
See you later. Ta ta. Bye.
Thank you so much. Thanks everyone.
Thanks. Thanks everybody. Yes.
Thank you.
Bye, bye.